[lang] Preliminary Coq support, core part with recursively qualified modules. (#1968)
ocaml/dune: doc/coq.rst

.. _coq-main:

******
Coq
******

Dune is also able to build Coq developments. A Coq project is a mix of

> Coq ``.v`` files and (optionally) OCaml libraries (in which case we say the project is a *Coq plugin*). To enable

Reviewer: Actually, a Coq project could contain OCaml files without being a plugin. There is a specific (and standard case) which is an OCaml project where some OCaml files are automatically extracted from Coq files, and some others are hand-written. At some point, it would be good to have good Dune support for this.

A Coq plugin is a Coq project containing OCaml files that link to the Coq API.

Author: I will refine this a bit; but indeed I will not talk about extraction until we get support for it.

Coq support in a dune project, the language version should be selected
in the ``dune-project`` file. For example:

.. code:: scheme

    (using coq 0.1)

This will enable support for the ``coqlib`` stanza in the current project. If the
language version is absent, dune will automatically add this line with the
latest Coq version to the project file once a ``(coqlib ...)`` stanza is used anywhere.

Basic Usage
===========

The basic form for defining Coq libraries is very similar to the OCaml form:

.. code:: scheme

    (coqlib
     (name <module_prefix>)
     (synopsis <text>)
     (modules <ordered_set_lang>)
     (flags <coq_flags>))

The stanza will build all `.v` files on the given directory.
The semantics of fields is:
- ``<module_prefix>>`` will be used as the default Coq library prefix

>   ``-R``

Reviewer: I am not sure I understand the choice of `-R` over `-Q` which was IIMN the recommended choice these days.

Author: I think virtually no library will compile with -Q, note that once installed -Q is implicit as of today given that coqtop includes the top level user-contribs.

We need to discuss the library model indeed, but I'll open an issue for that as there are many complications. For now this PR and 1555 will just reach the point single libraries can be handled properly as in coq makefile.

Author: > I suggest you leave this for now and just create an issue. We'll address this in a subsequent PR.

Understood, thanks!

Reviewer: Many libraries actually rely on `-Q` as of today and it would be good that there is no regression for these libraries (as coq_makefile supports the two options). That being said, I can understand that this is still experimental support and could be seen as a later refinement.

The semantics of fields is:
- ``<module_prefix>>`` will be used as the default Coq library prefix
  ``-R``
- the ``modules`` field does allow to constraint the set of modules
  included in the library, similarly to its OCaml counterpart
- ``<coq_flags>`` will be passed to ``coqc``.

The ``coqlib`` stanza does not yet support composition of Coq

> libraries. In the current version, libraries are located using Coq's

Reviewer 2: I think that this would age better:
```suggestion
libraries. In version 0.1, libraries are located using Coq's
```

Author: Done thanks!

built-in library management, thus Coq will always resort to the
installed version of a particular library.

This will be fixed in the future.

Recursive modules
===================

Adding:

.. code:: scheme
    (include_subdirs unqualified)

> to the ``dune`` will make Dune to consider all the modules in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to the ``dune`` file will make Dune to consider all the modules in the
```

Author: Done thanks!

> current directory and sub-directories, qualified in the current Coq

Reviewer 2: Just making sure it's not a typo: `unqualified` corresponds to coq-qualified?

Author: As of today yes, enabling `(qualified ...)` does imply some deeper changes so this is the reason I am submitting this "minimal" PR.

Author: I have fixed this and now `qualified` has the proper semantics.
